index.md, before:

---
permalink: /index
---

## Germain Gauthier

Assistant Professor of Economics \
Department of Social and Political Sciences \
Bocconi University 

germain.gauthier@unibocconi.it \
[curriculum vitae](https://www.dropbox.com/s/wo9xrlgyodbgth1/CV_Germain_Gauthier.pdf?dl=0)

## Research

### Methods

Among other things, I am developing new AI methods for social scientists working with unstructured data, such as texts, images, audio, and video recordings. 

- Measuring Crime Incidence and Reporting: Method and Application to #MeToo \
  [working paper](https://www.dropbox.com/s/jepq64dfauyo1t6/metoo_crime_v6.pdf?dl=0)

- Deep Latent Variable Models for Unstructured Data \
  (with Philine Widmer & Elliott Ash) \
  *Paper available upon request*

- Neural Ideal Point Models \
  (with Hugo Subtil & Philine Widmer) \
  *Paper available upon request*

- Relatio: Text Semantics Capture Political and Economic Narratives \
  (with Elliott Ash & Philine Widmer) \
  <u>Political Analysis</u>, 2023 \
  [published version](https://www.cambridge.org/core/journals/political-analysis/article/relatio-text-semantics-capture-political-and-economic-narratives/E72C0482A44C9A817E381B394A73E2D6), [working paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2108.01720), [replication files](https://dataverse.harvard.edu/dataset.xhtml?persistentId=doi:10.7910/DVN/3BRWKK&faces-redirect=true)

### Applied Work

I mainly study the societal consequences of digital technologies, such as social media and artificial intelligence.

- The Lifecycle of Protests in the Digital Age \
  (with Pierre Boyer, Yves Le Yaouanq, Vincent Rollet & Benoît Schmutz) \
  [working paper](https://www.dropbox.com/scl/fi/dwstzxzo0pa5lls5lbvmu/Gilets_Jaunes_Theory_Empirics.pdf?rlkey=4hsj8wytobeh9a7idw8q957fs&st=0cpn2svu&dl=0)

- The Political Effects of X’s Recommender Algorithm \
  (with Roland Hodler, Philine Widmer & Ekaterina Zhuravskaya) \
  *Swiss National Science Foundation Grant No. 100018_215554* \
  *Paper available upon request*

- Artificial Inequality: Large Language Models Disadvantage Women Job Seekers \
  (with Kenza Elass, Debora Nozza, and Paola Profeta) \
  *Paper available upon request*

- Les déterminants de la mobilisation des "Gilets Jaunes" \
  (with Pierre Boyer, Thomas Delemotte, Vincent Rollet & Benoît Schmutz) \
  <u>Revue Economique</u>, Vol. 71 - 1. Jan. 2020  \
  [published version](https://www.cairn.info/revue-economique-2020-1-page-109.htm), [policy brief](https://www.lemonde.fr/idees/article/2019/11/15/entre-facebook-et-le-rond-point-la-double-originalite-du-mouvement-des-gilets-jaunes_6019218_3232.html#xtor=AL-32280270), [column](https://www.lemonde.fr/idees/article/2019/11/15/entre-facebook-et-le-rond-point-la-double-originalite-du-mouvement-des-gilets-jaunes_6019218_3232.html#xtor=AL-32280270)


## Teaching

- Graduate Level - Diversity and Global Policy (Bocconi, 2023/2024) \
  [slides](https://bocconi-my.sharepoint.com/:f:/g/personal/germain_gauthier_unibocconi_it/EmSf2ln-SLxHtMyXxRb10EcBXjuJVVQ99pyt6U4dBy7-UA?e=R5nucy)

- Undergraduate Level -  Public Finance (Bocconi, 2023/2024) \
  [slides](https://bocconi-my.sharepoint.com/:f:/g/personal/germain_gauthier_unibocconi_it/EjkEK1I-b6NNpzQQp3TsnHYBVr8O_WnVfb__GVoXV4dNmw?e=SMMpeb)

- Graduate Level - Text as Data for the Social Sciences (LMU, 2022/2023) \
  [slides](https://bocconi-my.sharepoint.com/:f:/g/personal/germain_gauthier_unibocconi_it/EuKp3FUNQIxHhYyQjcnhDW4B-oQhQ-i0x1qlBmuH26-V2Q?e=4U4Zbd)

- Graduate Level - Introductory Course to Stata (CREST, 2020) \
  [gitlab]((https://gitlab.com/germain.gauthier/code-for-econometrics-101/-/blob/master/poly.md))


## Software

- relatio: A Python package to extract narrative statements from texts \
  [github](https://github.com/relatio-nlp/relatio),  [pypi](https://pypi.org/project/relatio/)

- DeepLatent: A Python package to estimate latent variable models via deep learning \
  [github](https://github.com/PinchOfData/DeepLatent)

- Alfred: A personalized AI assistant with built-in memory \
  [github](https://github.com/PinchOfData/alfred)

Commit message:

Revise index.md with updated profile and projects

index.md, after:

---
permalink: /index
---

## Germain Gauthier

Assistant Professor of Economics \
Department of Social and Political Sciences \
Bocconi University 

germain.gauthier@unibocconi.it \
[curriculum vitae](https://www.dropbox.com/s/wo9xrlgyodbgth1/CV_Germain_Gauthier.pdf?dl=0)

## Research

### Methods

Among other things, I am developing new AI methods for social scientists working with unstructured data, such as texts, images, audio, and video recordings. 

- Measuring Crime Incidence and Reporting: Method and Application to #MeToo \
  [working paper](https://www.dropbox.com/s/jepq64dfauyo1t6/metoo_crime_v6.pdf?dl=0)

- Deep Latent Variable Models for Unstructured Data \
  (with Philine Widmer & Elliott Ash) \
  *Paper available upon request*

- Neural Ideal Point Models \
  (with Hugo Subtil & Philine Widmer) \
  *Paper available upon request*

- Relatio: Text Semantics Capture Political and Economic Narratives \
  (with Elliott Ash & Philine Widmer) \
  <u>Political Analysis</u>, 2023 \
  [published version](https://www.cambridge.org/core/journals/political-analysis/article/relatio-text-semantics-capture-political-and-economic-narratives/E72C0482A44C9A817E381B394A73E2D6), [working paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2108.01720), [replication files](https://dataverse.harvard.edu/dataset.xhtml?persistentId=doi:10.7910/DVN/3BRWKK&faces-redirect=true)

### Applied Work

I mainly study the societal consequences of digital technologies, such as social media and artificial intelligence.

- The Lifecycle of Protests in the Digital Age \
  (with Pierre Boyer, Yves Le Yaouanq, Vincent Rollet & Benoît Schmutz) \
  [working paper](https://www.dropbox.com/scl/fi/dwstzxzo0pa5lls5lbvmu/Gilets_Jaunes_Theory_Empirics.pdf?rlkey=4hsj8wytobeh9a7idw8q957fs&st=0cpn2svu&dl=0)

- Cycling through Elections: The Political Consequences of the Tour de France \
  (with Ala Alrababah, Maelle Delouis-Jost & Adam Polak) \
  [working paper](https://osf.io/preprints/socarxiv/fj4vh_v1)

- The Political Effects of X’s Recommender Algorithm \
  (with Roland Hodler, Philine Widmer & Ekaterina Zhuravskaya) \
  *Swiss National Science Foundation Grant No. 100018_215554* \
  *Paper available upon request*

- Artificial Inequality: Large Language Models Disadvantage Women Job Seekers \
  (with Kenza Elass, Debora Nozza, and Paola Profeta) \
  *Paper available upon request*

- Les déterminants de la mobilisation des "Gilets Jaunes" \
  (with Pierre Boyer, Thomas Delemotte, Vincent Rollet & Benoît Schmutz) \
  <u>Revue Economique</u>, Vol. 71 - 1. Jan. 2020  \
  [published version](https://www.cairn.info/revue-economique-2020-1-page-109.htm), [policy brief](https://www.lemonde.fr/idees/article/2019/11/15/entre-facebook-et-le-rond-point-la-double-originalite-du-mouvement-des-gilets-jaunes_6019218_3232.html#xtor=AL-32280270), [column](https://www.lemonde.fr/idees/article/2019/11/15/entre-facebook-et-le-rond-point-la-double-originalite-du-mouvement-des-gilets-jaunes_6019218_3232.html#xtor=AL-32280270)


## Teaching

- Graduate Level - Diversity and Global Policy (Bocconi, 2023/2024) \
  [slides](https://bocconi-my.sharepoint.com/:f:/g/personal/germain_gauthier_unibocconi_it/EmSf2ln-SLxHtMyXxRb10EcBXjuJVVQ99pyt6U4dBy7-UA?e=R5nucy)

- Undergraduate Level -  Public Finance (Bocconi, 2023/2024) \
  [slides](https://bocconi-my.sharepoint.com/:f:/g/personal/germain_gauthier_unibocconi_it/EjkEK1I-b6NNpzQQp3TsnHYBVr8O_WnVfb__GVoXV4dNmw?e=SMMpeb)

- Graduate Level - Text as Data for the Social Sciences (LMU, 2022/2023) \
  [slides](https://bocconi-my.sharepoint.com/:f:/g/personal/germain_gauthier_unibocconi_it/EuKp3FUNQIxHhYyQjcnhDW4B-oQhQ-i0x1qlBmuH26-V2Q?e=4U4Zbd)

- Graduate Level - Introductory Course to Stata (CREST, 2020) \
  [gitlab]((https://gitlab.com/germain.gauthier/code-for-econometrics-101/-/blob/master/poly.md))


## Software

- relatio: A Python package to extract narrative statements from texts \
  [github](https://github.com/relatio-nlp/relatio),  [pypi](https://pypi.org/project/relatio/)

- DeepLatent: A Python package to estimate latent variable models via deep learning \
  [github](https://github.com/PinchOfData/DeepLatent)

- Alfred: A personalized AI assistant with built-in memory \
  [github](https://github.com/PinchOfData/alfred)
